# Homework Assignment 05 (due 7/12 12p)

This assignment is to be completed individually.  You are not allowed to share your code with other students.  The assignment is worth a total of 120 points.  If you have any questions, visit us during office hours and/or create a post on [Piazza](https://piazza.com) using the appropriate folder tag.

> Each of the following functions **must implement a recursive solution**.

1. `long int power(int b, int e)`.  Write a function that takes integers `b` and `e >= 0` as parameters and returns the value of `b^e`.

1. `unsigned long int prefix_sum(unsigned int n)`.  Write a recursive function that, given a positive integer `n > 0` as input, will return the sum of the numbers from `1` to `n`.

1. `unsigned long int suffix_sum(unsigned int n, unsigned int s)`.  Write a function that, given positive integers `1 <= n <= 10000` and `1 <= s <= n` as input, will return the sum of the last `s` elements in the sequence from 1 to `n` (inclusive).

1. `unsigned int sum_digits(unsigned int num)`.  Write a function that, given a positive integer `num > 0` as input, will return the sum of all digits in `num` that are divisible by 2.

1. `int v_sorted(const char *A)`.  Write a function that returns 1 if the vowels in the input string `A` appear in non-decreasing order and 0 otherwise.  You can assume this function is not case sensitive.  If the string does not contain any vowels, return 1.

1. `int palindrome(const char *S, unsigned int n)`.  Write a function that will return 1 if an input string `S` of length `n >= 0` is a palindrome and 0 otherwise.  The empty string is a palindrome and a string constituted only by a single character is also a palindrome.

1. `void safe_string(char *s)`.  Write a function that, given a sequence `A` of `n > 1` integers, will return 1 if the input sequence is in strict increasing order, -1 if the sequence is in strict decreasing order, and 0 otherwise.

1. `void reverse(char *str, unsigned int len)`.  Write a function that will reverse (in-place) a sequence of characters of length `0 <= len <= 1000`.

1. `void print_reversed_letters(const char *str)`.  Write a function that takes a string `str` as input and outputs to the standard output the lower-case letters in `str` in reversed order.  For example, if the input is `"csc-212 IS olleh"` your function should print `"hellocsc"` to the `stdout`.

1. `int binary_search(const int *A, unsigned int n, int k)`.  Write a function that will return 1 if an element `k` is found in an array of integers `A` and 0 otherwise.  The input to your function is an array of integers `A`, the number of elements in the array `0 < n <= 10000`, and the value of `k`.  Assume that elements in `A` are sorted in non-decreasing order.

1. `void draw_triangle(unsigned int a, unsigned int b, unsigned int c)`.  Write a function that, takes positive integers `a`, `b`, and `c` as input, where `0 < a <= b` and `0 < c`.  Your function will print some lines to the `stdout`.  Each line can only contain `+`s.  The first line will contain `a` characters, the next `a+c` characters, the next `a+c+c` characters, and so on, as long as each line contains at most `b` characters. Then the pattern is repeated backwards.  For example, calling `draw_triangle(4, 7, 1)` will output:
```bash
++++
+++++
++++++
+++++++
+++++++
++++++
+++++
++++
```

1. `void print_pattern(unsigned int len, unsigned int col)`.  Write a function that will output the pattern shown below to the `stdout`.  Your function will take as input `len = 2^i`, for `i >= 0` which indicates the width of your drawing, defined as the number of vertical bars in the longest line.  The second parameter `col >= 0` indicates the starting column of your drawing.  For example, the pattern below was generated by calling `print_pattern(8, 2)`.
```bash
  |
  |-|
    |
  |-|-|-|
      |
      |-|
        |
  |-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
          |
          |-|
            |
          |-|-|-|
              |
              |-|
                |
```

1. `unsigned int reverse_words(char *str, unsigned int idx)`.  Write a function to reverse the words in an input string `str`.  Your function should write back to `str` a formatted output string, and also return the new length of `str` (do not count the `NULL` character).  Your output string can **only** contain lowercase letters or numbers, where words are separated by 1 whitespace.  A word is defined as a consecutive sequence of letters or numbers.  The parameter `idx` indicates the starting index of the string (the first call will **always** pass 0).  This parameter can be used to provide information on each recursive call.  The returning value of the function can also be used to pass information between recursive calls, for example, it can represent the number of characters on a substring/string.  Examples:
```bash
In: "    No   matter  where   you go,there you    are."
Out: "are you there go you where matter no"

In: "It takes a LOT of time and practice!! to get-good at coding ...   "
Out: "coding at good get to practice and time of lot a takes it"

In: "Genius    is 1.00% inspiration     and 99% perspiration"
Out: "perspiration 99 and inspiration 00 1 is genius"
```

### Submission and Grading
You will submit a single file named `functions.c` through Gradescope.  If you eventually need to create additional functions, those should also be included in this file.  Questions will be automatically graded, therefore, you must use the same function prototypes provided in this assignment, otherwise the autograding tests for correctness will not work and you won't get credit.  For each of the questions you either pass the test cases (full points) or not (zero points).

> You must be reminded that students caught cheating or plagiarizing will receive `no credit`.  Additional actions, including a failing grade in the class or referring the case for disciplinary action, may also be taken.
